thank you all for coming my name is Evan
miyazono
you'll see me around slack and github is
and you will also see this logo as the
protocol labs research contribution to
all of our logo ecosystem so when you
see that this is where you're like that
is what it represents the idea is that
it's a blueprint in the research phase
of things and what I plan to cover today
is enough to give you a sense of why
protocol labs research is a separate
group or like a unnamed interface within
protocol labs and some of the motivation
behind what protocol labs research is
trying to do and to be fair this is all
my interpretation of it but I think that
it gives you a cohesive it provides a
cohesive view of how different ideas
will interplay with each other and what
the structure of protocol labs as a
research and development and deployment
company and lab is part of that will
come in to taking all of these ideas and
topics that you hear used and you can
trace very fundamentally into protocol
labs that may not have any clear
structure or relationship to each other
and I'll get into the answers to these
two questions by explaining why we often
they're by explaining why we often mix
described protocol labs as a research
development and deployment lab
I'll go into what the focus of research
is as well as answering the specific
question towards the end of why why is
protocol labs awarding grants if you
didn't know protocol labs is awarding
grants then I'm very glad you're here
and there'll be a fair number of details
about that at the end as like a meta
note this 90-minute session will include
only about ten minutes of me talking and
then we will start working on ideas at
the forefront of research as it pertains
to the problems that we're interested in
and by we I mean we people in this room
not we protocol labs as MP us or royal
we so jumping into answering the first a
that you may have seen this image it's a
nice cartoon of the pipeline where ideas
are generated in research turned into
specifications and then through
development deployment eventually create
tools that give humans superpowers in
theory but some there are many things
that are lost in the simplification that
is this nice
well abstracted idea and one of those
things lost is the truth that progress
is not inevitable often you'll have
ideas they die and never make it to a
spec you'll see that there are ideas
that will die at many places along this
pipeline and I would argue that most
ideas actually die and to be fair I
would say that it's probably a good
thing there is such a thing as a bad
idea and not all ideas should be turned
into tools that people have access to
either because they would be very bad
tools or they would violate a law of
physics
and you'd spend an infinite amount of
time trying to make them happen but
there are definitely ideas that get lost
along the way and to highlight two of
them I would point out the first
electric car from 1884 and that was a
technology that was sad to sit on for
over a hundred years but even worse
potentially is the fact that the first
steam-powered motor essentially was the
a leo pile built by her of Alexander in
the 1st century AD and the first
actually useful steam pump came of
millennium and a half later and if that
doesn't make you feel cheated or hit you
in the gut I I don't know what would uh
imagining us being that far along that
much further along technologically and
so the reason that we built we are
building this research development and
deployment lab the way that one
convinced me to join was that he told me
we are going to make sure that ideas
aren't just generated and thrown into a
publication to get buried somewhere
we're going to try and make reliable
forward progress as an organization and
ensure that humanity doesn't lose
information or ideas or understanding or
skills or technologies and possibly most
importantly whose rights and I would
argue that it's well I will not resist
the claim that that is an ambitious goal
and so I would love to move forward by
answering the question of how do you go
about doing that and as a research lab
we start with a set of values and these
are just core beliefs things like the
fact that every human should have access
to all of humanity's knowledge
and have whatever it they need to be
able to expand it on that people should
have the freedoms in the digital realm
but we provide everyone in their
physical interactions like a right to
free speech privacy right to assemble a
right to communicate with whoever you
want without having to rely on a third
party and also the belief that if you're
going to do something you should do it
well I think that if you try to if you
try and narrow down that set of beliefs
to some smaller subset you will lose
understanding of why we do some of the
things that we do with protocol labs and
with those values we choose tools that
can work
synchronous like work in synergy with
those values that sounded weirdly
corporate we have values and there are
tools that work with those values and
these are tools like information
processes as vague as information
processing coming more concrete toward
things like open source software or
using cryptography to allow trustless
interactions decentralization I would
include in things like this the ability
to do incentive engineering is another
one of these tools and even though we
don't use all of them it doesn't mean
that we believe in the values they
represent any less and from those we
build infrastructure that incorporates
those values and preserves those values
and so from an overarching perspective
that is the philosophy for research it's
definitely valid to think about how does
this differ from engineering and there
is a clear difference between the
perception that research is this aimless
and exploratory thing where if you try
and put deadlines
you will be sorely disappointed
whereas engineering is in gold ribbon
and deadline-driven and you have product
managers and you have people who
understand what users want and so if you
try to fit many of the things that
protocol abs is currently doing you'll
see that much of it looks more like
engineering by these perceptions but we
are definitely engaging in what I would
call curiosity driven research within
every engineering project as well as
beyond an external to the engineering
projects I would not consider this
aimless research part of the research
development deployment lab is to have
topic driven research where we want to
develop toolkits improve the set of
cryptographic tools to enable better
trustless interactions or improve on the
the incentive systems within open-source
software to make open-source projects
more sustainable and so this could be
small projects within larger project or
small questions within larger projects
or it could be these nascent independent
projects they almost seem unrelated
until you take a step back and reflect
on the overall values of protocol labs
we do this free we've already been doing
research like this both internally and
externally we have a few independent
researchers I'd like to highlight the
source cred project you can go check it
out it's very interesting and deserves
more time that I would allow it here as
well as having some mix of internal and
external venues like the research office
hours if you haven't heard of it every
Wednesday at believe it's not 8 or 9
a.m. Pacific we just have an open call
for anyone who's interested in chatting
about
search questions and we've had a number
of people from the community join and
maybe and either propose open problems
or slew potential solutions avenues to
solutions at least to open problems and
on the purely external side we have open
problems and requests for proposals the
latter two were outlined in a blog post
that we put up on April 10th and the
first half of that would be the open
problems this is a github repo where the
issues describe either roadblocks that
we've come across or a technological
wish list where it seems like there is a
hole in the puzzle piece in the puzzle
and it would be really great to have a
piece that would fit that hole or even a
small problem where we can solve it in
any specific case but it seemed to come
up with slight variations time and time
again and solving it in a more general
case seems like it would be a
substantial academic contribution to the
field that people could reuse over and
over and so in three slides we will dive
into one or two of these we currently
have that's nine hey we can dive into
these the goal was to source some more
from all of you and so I'm happy to the
plan was to talk through the development
of one that with all of you as a group
and then potentially split off into
smaller groups and have as many groups
as we have ideas and to complement the
open problems these are in the protocol
research repo and the idea is to have a
place to discuss these ideas the hope is
that eventually people will come to
protocol labs and come to this repo in
particular to post questions they have
have discussions here
and make use of the compliment of the
open problems which is the request for
proposals program wherein we assign some
amount of funding to individual open
problems and we'll review applications
and actually fund people to work on
promising avenues for these problems
this is this has the potential to be
exceedingly powerful in a field where it
may be difficult to get academic funding
for things that are truly impactful in
the end to engineering projects whereas
we know the problems that are impactful
to us we have funding that we can put
behind some of these problems and
optimistically I think we could have an
influence over the directions that
fields move and take them from solving
toy problems to solving pivotal problems
that are integral to some future
engineering efforts so that's what I had
happy to answer questions now and then
we'll move on to trying out talking
through some open problems
any questions on that
so I think you summarized the problem
but the question well the last sentence
of what would we like out of the lib p2p
and I kept s teams to make ideas that
have been discovered make questions that
have been discovered at the forefront of
the development into this open problem
RFP pipeline and my answer to that would
be that the first step would be to just
go to protocol slash research slash
issues and create a new issue call it a
draft open problem and we will we being
the community people who follow this who
watch this repo can comment on the
issues refine them and once they have
reached the level of formality that is
necessary to have a a problem statement
that has clearly satisfiable conditions
then we'll label it with the official
open problem tag which you'll see here
we I've tagged the ones that are open
official open problem statements as well
as ones that have rfp's open this is a
bit out of date because the the bottom
three are not actually open at the
moment
[Laughter]
seems like something weird thinking it's
right they yeah I get actually that's uh
right here in the general cases we've
solved it so many times specifically we
have a problem in ipfs right now that
dhts scale really well in horizontally
but that's no matter how far you scale
horizontally it doesn't increase the
vertical scaling of dhts this more
specifically if every single node in the
DHT is only putting like a constant
number of items to the DHD it skills
fine no matter how many notes you have
it scales well but if every every single
node or even some small number of nodes
are putting an unbounded amount of
content to the DHT it doesn't scale that
well which is fine because ipfs doesn't
put a lot of content to the DHT but what
this does put a lot of into the DHT
right now is called provider records so
when you need to find content you have
to look it up you have to figure out who
has this piece and now in order for ipfs
in order to provide random access we
provide every single hash of a graph so
if you have a graph that's like you know
a petabyte of files each of those is one
256k node so like millions and millions
and millions and so if you want to if
you tell IP best to provide that
petabyte of data it's gonna send you
know billions of DHT puts out which
doesn't work it just breaks things so we
need to find a solution to this problem
how can you have ipfs users that have
petabytes of data and if you could make
it accessible to the rest of the network
without completely dossing network this
thread has gotten pretty long it's about
2 years old now it poses the problem and
discusses a bunch of solutions pretty
well but
definitely still an open problem I'm at
the point right now where I think our
solution is going to be up like
thousands of small little improvements
that just add up to making it reasonably
work at some given scale it's hard
Oh
yeah so like I specify the problem here
I suppose I go through a bunch of
potential solutions talk about what's
good what's bad in each of them and then
talk about it a little bit more of
different things and then yeah the
problem like over the course of like
interacting with people the problem is
very well teased out here but I think I
just need to go through and like
condense this into a like one or two
paragraph precise problem statement that
is like properly abstracted properly
abstracted for research people yeah